"But according to the Tibetan calendar, the alumina calendar, our gracious, kindness teacher,
Buddha Shakyamuni, performed so many beautiful miracle activities, which is the beneficial
activity that inspires so many couples in the state of kindness, compassion, love, respect
and appreciation, understanding each other's meaning of life and meaning of the nature.
That is what the miracle activity is known as.
The Buddha Shakyamuni, many of you know already, but knowing again, I always think we all know,
but we also, I'm talking this in the commemorating of our great teachers, is our way to inspire
ourselves and following the footsteps of these great teachers, according our best capabilities.
So great teacher Buddha Shakyamuni was born two thousand, about six hundred years ago,
and he stayed in the kingdom on the palace until age 29, then he left the kingdom, and
seeing how to remove all suffering, the difficulties, troubles that we send in things go through,
and how to release that, and how to bring the meat of those troubles, bring some meanings
of our lives and our destinations.
And all those searching, thinking, and Buddha left, came down and then reached enlightenment
at age 35.
As you heard many times, Buddha Shakyamuni performed twelve beneficial activities, principal
beneficial activities.
Among twelve, always, the port is even more principal, and those are known as the activity
of the birth, activity of the enlightenment, activities of the turning the wheel of dharma
or the teaching, and the activity of the entering the Mahabharic Naranas.
There's four principal activities.
So at age 35, Buddha reached enlightenment, which is second, his principal activity after
taking the birth.
At the same year, at the same age, 49 days after his enlightenment, Buddha turned the
wheel of dharma.
And the wheel of dharma means message of love, kindness, compassion, exploring or how to
explore our innate beautiful qualities of ours, yours, and mine, and everyone's.
That's what the teaching, in the context of respect, appreciation, nonviolence, and peace,
and harmony, and simple, that's what teaching's are.
And so, the teaching was the third major activities, among that four I'm calling, there's twelve
major activities, among twelve, the four are the highest, or principal activities.
And then, at age 81 or 82, Buddha entered Mahabharic Naranas, which is known as the
port principal activities.
So even Buddha Shakyamuni said in the teaching, "Apramai Mahaparin Narana, your disciples
and followers of the teachings go to those four places, where Buddha was born, the Lumbini,
where Buddha reached enlightenment, Buddha Gaya, and where Buddha turned the wheel of
dharma and modern name known as Saranat or the Varanasi, and then where Buddha entered
Mahaparin Narana, the Kushina, those are the four different places.
Among that four activities, principal activities, then the teaching is even more spiritual activity
,
because the purpose of enlightenment, the principal beneficial activity of the Buddha
is teaching.
Teaching is the most powerful activities, among all his activities.
So this miracle activity is connected to the teaching activities.
It is inspiring, it is special, it is beautiful, it is discovering the total new dimension
of the reality of the nature, where things are.
According to Buddhism, miracle is not just a magic, or not just a making-up, but miracle
means to discovering the nature's structure as it is.
The nature, when you become the master of the nature, in one way, when you become the
master of the contramicular, when you become the master of the contramicular, there is
no restrictions, no restrictions, no restrictions, or there is no boundaries, or is, according
to Buddhism, is of more kind of energy and light levels.
It is beyond the light metals, it is shimmering light status.
When you become the master of that, your mind is in that status.
Therefore, things change, things can change.
When you change in that level, you see then different things happen, it is not something
that really making up things and tracking the eyes, but showing the beauty and this
freedom, the flexible, the openness of the nature as it is.
That is what miracle is.
For that reason, great master Nala Juna said in the teaching, "When you understand the
meaning of the great emptiness, everything is possible, everything is freedom, there
is no restrictions, all is can be, all can be."
For that reason, fire turned into the water, water turned into the fire, big can be small,
small can be big.
The big and small, these restrictions is duality conceptions, because that means we are not
master of the comprehension, nuclear status, we are not master of the natural.
When you become the master of the nature, where the nature is, everything is flexible,
so therefore, Buddha showed of the natures a flexible freedom, it is way how things can
be manifested and transformed, reappeared in many ways, and that for that is known as
the miracle activities, which show the true meaning of the way nature is, or the phenomena
that is natural existing.
So, according to Buddha's teaching, Buddha showed that miracle activities at the beginning
of this lunar calendar, they first and continually did until the full moon, so for two weeks
or three days, Buddha continually did that miracle activities.
Where he did perform that activities is in the Kiarastha.
So, Kiarastha is the one of the mostly, again, important holy site in Buddhism, not just
Buddha performed miracle activities there, but also Buddha stayed there about 25 years,
and this become the longest place the Buddha stayed in one place, after the Kingdom.
He stayed at Kingdom 29, and he lasted 25 years, on and off, on and off, 25 years of
Buddha spent.
So, he is considering as like his principal places, and Buddha performed miracle activities
for 15 days, and started this last week, and continually, until this next, or next week,
activity, I think, I mean, first always on the full moon status, and this is, therefore,
this is also called activity, always known as is multiplying months, because in the teaching
said, said, when you activity, whatever you do, miracle activities, it will multiply 100,000,
100,000 times that power and energy is, because this is something really special.
Buddha generally always do these activities, not just kind of do randomly, or kind of just
happened, but Buddha do specifically meaningful ways, everything, everything has the meaning
and purpose of that, it's not just kind of like casually happened, and Buddha did knowingly
perform the activities.
Everything is in clear, wisdom-like status, and therefore, his miracle activity, the time,
timing is very special, timing is a waking time, and for example, also in that way, and
this is according, I mean, I think everywhere, is spring time is coming.
Spring is generally growing times, it is time of growing, and again, it's called Buddhism,
in the teaching, in particular in the video, and the teaching said, what do you see outside,
and that you will see with our system of physical, and what physical level you, what do you see,
you see the outside, so the spring, summer, autumn, winter, that circle, also similar
pattern taking with our physical, energy, and levels, and therefore, for example, again,
Buddha performed these miracle activities in this special time of the spring time, which
is growing, upcoming, lashing time, as you see, and that has similar pattern is taking
inwardly to you, therefore, every kind of use that system, that growing, that opportunity,
really practices with activating our meditation of goodness things, it will then move faster,
stronger, deeper.
It is similar, for example, I think when you do the, what do you do, when you do the surfing,
those who do surfing, it's good to have high ties, I think, right, good to have high ties.
Without a high tie, even you have the surfing board under your arms, you can't do too much
surfing, but when you have these nice high ties, if you do the surfing, or even you learn
the surfing, that is the time, I think, time. And when you like to ski, skiing, not just
having the ski gear is enough, you have to have the snow. I think you have to have all
those slops and whatever that is, then you can do the surfing. Similarly, this, everything
is connected, everything is related, everything is given teaching to us, reminded to us,
it's all sense. And when these energies stay at such kind of opening times, if we use these
opportunities, then there is a great window of light of the enlightenment and good energies
are blooming. And for those reasons, then this miracle month, this is what we call it,
multiply month, miracle month, whether performed miracle activities because of the beautiful
time that we followers can activate in our enlightenment activities and our kindness,
compassion, bodhicitta activities, and then that will help us and that help to the other
being. So therefore this, again, this month is known as a very special month, as many
of you know, but also same time you can do practice such as get together in the Sangha
member as as community. Again, in the Buddha, always teaching the Sangha getting together
is something so special because they have similar intention. You will all come with
the same intention, love, compassion, respect, joy, and devotion to the Dharma, to the teaching,
to the practice. That is the motivation we can. We didn't come to win or to gain something
different color like in the samsara level, but to something so very inspiring to deepen
our understanding, calm, peace, relax, those are the many reasons we can. So we've come
with that intention, we put together, then it matters strongly. You know, often in the
teaching say, poor Sangha members, poor individual practicing comes together, it fills up the
corners, corners, it matches strength. And one person, for example, even used Buddha,
one, what's called, one grass can be easily bred, bred, but group of grass put together,
it has strength, it cannot. Similarly beautiful motivations we put together and directed
that whatever we dedicated such as this marriage prayers, dedication prayers, that they need
benefit to the others, and then benefit to ourself. So therefore practicing this time,
of course always practice is very special, but this time is very, very special time to
practices. It is said, it multiply hundred thousand times, hundred thousand times. And
our friend, Kindipa Nijerum, always you say, this is that this time, there is quite few
times in a year, this kind of time comes, and you always say, this is the bonus time,
this is the bonus time. For the practicing, this is really bonus, and we can act directly
at that. That it will benefit to us and to the others, and this might just be reminding
and this even quicker.